# puzzle_slider_game
To run the game: use 'python3 puzzle_game.py' command and run it in terminal. Make sure you have python3 installed in your machine.

Design of the game:
To design the program, I first started with designing the splash screen that when user first run the program. To get into the folder where the splash screen gif are, I utilized the os module, and for the splash screen to disappear after a few second I used time module specifically the time.sleep method. After that I started designing the play areas of the program, using turtles to draw 3 large rectangles.
	To load the puzzle files, I created the load button. Once user clicked on the area of the button the list of files that ends with .puz will show up and user can select which ever files that's on the list. I selected mario.puz to be the default file. After loading the file, I created a function called directive_info() which is responsible for organizing information in the .puz file. I manipulated the data in the .puz file into several list, and return the lists for other functions.
	For the tiles aka the puzzle pieces, I assigned different turtle objects to attach the images of the tiles. For example, for the Mario puzzle pieces I created 16 turtle objects to handle the attachment of the image. For the tile movement, when user click on a tile the program will automatically check the neighbors of the tile, which are the tiles to the left, right, up, and down the tile. To determine the position of the neighbor, I manipulated the x and the y position of the tile, for example the tile to the left I would shift the x position by subtracting a constant value(I used the size info provide in the puz file). When user are confused and wanted to solve the puzzle quickly they can use the cheat button called "reset". To implement this button, I basically reattached the images in an ordered way. To win the game the user need to solve the puzzle within the move he/she selected and the program will display win msg and quit. Whenever a user wants to quit he/she can click on the click icon and the program will quit as expected.
